Internatializing and localizing TSUGI
=====================================

This is very much a work in progress and I invite comments from
others more skilled in internationalizing PHP.

I looked at the Moodle approach and decided to go with a more
basic gettext style of internationalization as I think the tools
today are far better than the tools were when Moodle was being
developed.

I decided to separate the I18N for the modules from everything
else (much like Moodle).   I decided to follow some of the
patterns from WordPress and add a few of my own _() variants

    __("Message", ['textdomain']);
    _e("Message", ['textdomain']);
    _m("Message");

Like Wordpress `_e()` echoes the message.  My `_m()` call
is shortcut to lookup a message in the 'master' text domain.

The translation files for the 'master' text domain are in the
'locale' folder in the top directory.   The translation files
for each module are in a folder like 'mod/attend/locale' and
the text domain for a module is its folder name within the
'mod' directory.

See the 'mod/attend' folder for the patterns on how to
localize a module. Make sure to add all four keyword
patterns: '_', '__', '_e' and '_m'

When starting a new translation, since poedit cannot exclude
folders and any tool folders like 'mod' or 'samples' need to
be handled separately, we must list all of the folders to scann
explicitly in the catalog properties.  So the settings for
the properties for a master translation are:

    Source path: ../../..
    Paths: lib, admin, common, core and lti

Over time there may be more sub-directories to add to the list.
Just make sure not to double scan the 'mod' or 'samples'
subdirectories.

TODO: I still need to do plurals.

Chuck
Tue Jun 10 08:53:25 EDT 2014



